Country Risk Premiums
To estimate the equity risk premium for a country, I start with a mature market premium and add an additional country risk premium, based upon the risk of the country in question.
Use the look up table in the next worksheet, to look up the statistics for an individual country or region.

Step 1: Estimating mature market risk premium
To estimate the mature market risk premium, I compute the implied equity risk premium for the S&P 500. To see the latest estimate for this number, go to my website and you can download the excel spreadsheet containing the implied premium
Link to site:
Historical monthly ERP:

Step 2: Estimate the default spread for the country in question. I offer two choices, one based upon the local currency sovereign rating for the country from Moody's and the other is the CDS spread for the country (if one exists)
Moody's ratings:
Ratings to spreads:
CDS spreads:
If you cannot find a country on this list, it is because that country does not have a sovereign rating or a sovereign CDS spread. Try the PRS worksheet in this spreadsheet for an alternate estimate.

Step 3: Convert the default spread into a country risk premium
With sovereign ratings default spreads, you have two choices:
Choice 1: Use the default spread as the measure of the additional country risk premium. To make this choice, go into the ERP worksheet and set cell E5 to 1.00.
Choice 2: Scale the default spread up to reflect the higher risk of equity in the market, relative to the default spread. I used the ratio of the S&P Emerging Market Equity Index std deviation to the BAML Emerging Public Bond index standard deviation
You can see the relative ratios for individual countries in the worksheet "Equity vs Govt Bond" in this spreadsheet. Set cell E5 in the ERP worksheet to that number.
With CDS spreads, I compute the base number in two steps
Substep 1: Since the base equity premium is computed for the US, and the US has a CDS spread, I subtracted out the US CDS spread from the CDS for other markets.
For simplicity (and since it does not make a big difference), I assume that any country that has a CDS spread lower than the US will have a zero country risk premium and end up with a total equity risk premium equal to the US.
Substep 2: I apply the scaling factor that you chose for the default spreads to this number to get a country risk premium. The default scaling is set at the my most recent year's estimate, but you can change it to 1, if you would
prefer not to scale the default spread.

Step 4: Compute a total equity risk premium
Add the mature market premium from step 1 to the country risk premium from step 3 to get a total equity risk premium.
